hey saster uh i'm here
uh with doug pepper general partner and
more at iconic
and boy there is just so much i don't
know if you're if you guys are on
twitter or the social media there's so
much chatter especially the last couple
weeks from vc's the the sky has fallen
and the stock market for sas stocks has
been dropping since january but
something happened the last couple weeks
i think we lost confidence we lost
confidence that things would come back
we lost confidence that the easy times
of the post-covetera would come back and
i want to do a deep dive and i wanted to
pick someone that could give us a
holistic view of what's happening
in venture in the public markets and i
reached out to doug pepper doug thanks
for joining us
jason great to be here thanks for having
me and i reached out to doug for a
couple reasons but but mainly because
he's been doing sas investing
since almost the early days doug has
been at three different leading venture
firms as a partner doing every type of
investment from seed stage he was the
first investment in marketo right and
the largest investor one of the first of
my generation sas ipos first for a big
ipo first for big exit he's gone on and
done multi-stage and now he's at iconic
which is one of the leading later stage
investors where boy he's kind of hit uh
he's he's invested in
so many of the hits of sas canva braze
which just ipo i think he's invested in
two different firms calendly we've heard
of that one loom uh air table better up
lattice captivate hq a bunch so doug's
touched
everything right from seed and also
importantly and we're gonna touch on
this a minute doug's been through a few
downturns um that we've had in sas not
only global ones but even once people
forgot about like 2016 which we'll chat
about in a minute and others and i think
the other thing about doug is um i think
people trust doug people believe in doug
doug would be a good choice for any
founders watching or listening and i
think
uh just some honest opinions um without
a lot of uh without a lot of chess
beating uh a lot of games and and
there's just every every vc has such a
has such a biased perspective i couldn't
think of someone that could help us more
than doug so again doug thanks thanks
for joining us so much
jason you're too kind that was a
wonderful introduction and and i really
appreciate it
so i want to dig into the markets but
let's just step back a minute and frame
this discussion on
a seeming paradox
paradox okay we write this series on
sasser called five interesting learnings
where we look at the top public
companies you know them all as a late
stage investor now we open up datadog we
open up bill.com our jaws drop i think
build.com grew 169 last quarter to smbs
and its stock falls 15
snowflake datadog these are companies
that are growing at rates literally
we've never seen in our careers halfway
nothing ever grew this fast right
and yet
the markets have fallen 50 or more since
their peaks is isn't this inconsistent
um
how do you this is this seems to be more
of a paradox than in other downturns
yeah yeah i think it's a it's a fair
question and in many ways it does feel
that way you know i think good news is
you're right uh businesses are
performing incredibly well in our
sectors
and you know i think that's because a
lot of what you and i and so many others
have been saying for five years 10 years
15 years
you know really turned out to be more
true than we even thought
the demand for technology transition to
the cloud digital transformation new
applications and then actually big
businesses and small realizing that they
needed to seek innovation from startups
as opposed to big companies that was all
more true than we thought and so the
growth rates of the markets are bigger
than we thought
and the companies are performing
incredibly well and you said it and
we're involved with a lot of them
they're beating their quarters they're
beating the street estimates they're
raising their guidance every quarter and
then the next day they drop five percent
yeah and i think what that tells you is
that the performance of the companies is
often disconnected from the valuations
and so what we're seeing today is not
a judgment on the performance
of the companies or their quality or the
opportunity ahead it's simply a
referendum on their valuations which i
think in retrospect now we can all agree
got well ahead of themselves and we can
talk about why and what happens from
here
but simply we're seeing these companies
be revalued uh first by public market
investors and increasingly by private
and is there is there any special
insights that iconic has from maybe it's
got an army of economists or others that
how you're seeing the macro environment
as it might help founders um because you
were you're you you've been invested
iconic's been investing consistently the
last decade right um in in sas and cloud
so any any any unique insights or any
strong positions um that that that
iconic has based on its data
yeah i'll tell you jason to be honest
with you we at iconic growth are not
macro economists uh we think about it we
care about it uh but we do the same
thing that you do yeah which is seek
every day to find the very best
entrepreneurs and the best products and
partner with them and help them
and we do that when valuations are low
and obviously in the last couple of
years we did it a lot when valuations
were high
so the answer is i don't think that we
have a crystal ball or any uh particular
insights into the macro economy other
than to say that our bet is that over
the long term three to five plus years
we're going to look back at today
and see very good entry points for
certain companies
yeah and what do you say
i feel this way myself but when you see
founders
criticize vcs for saying the sky is
falling from their advice when just four
or five months ago they were investing
at multi-billion dollar valuations like
how can you even trust vcs like now
they're telling you to to cinch the belt
and tighten it um when they are
investing at 100x ar deals single-digit
months ago like how do you how can you
take that sort of uh back and forth
feedback from from vcs as a founder what
do you do with it
it seems i mean were you which year were
we brilliant as investors i think it's a
very good point uh and i i can see that
whipsaw effect feeling uh on the part of
entrepreneurs and we try to avoid that i
do think consistency
is important in the venture business and
we all got away from this by the way
consistency of investing over years for
time-based diversity diversification you
know is a good thing uh but also
consistency of advice and the truth is
that we're not giving all companies the
same advice
and i think it would be incorrect uh for
a vc to go to every one of their
portfolio companies
and say since the belt uh right there's
gonna be some that are market leaders
that are performing really well that
have three years of capital that you say
let's hit the gas and separate from
competitors there might be others that
are having a tougher time that don't
have two years of cash where you're
saying hey let's be mindful of this
let's cinch the belt and live to fight
another day and so i think uh one size
does not fit all right now but i but i
agree with entrepreneurs that would say
hey feels like things have changed
and the reality is they've changed for
all of us
very quickly so it stands to reason that
some of the advice would change too
all right i want to talk about the
present but because i have you help me
go back in time a little bit
as long as i've been doing sas i i
counted on saster five material
downturns okay
and um but i didn't really realize until
the other day that i think 2016 was the
most interesting to me um 2016 we're
coming up to the saster annual things
are good
um i'm new to investing i'm pretty
liquid i'm not even paying attention
everything but public stocks fall 50
percent in like 60 days in 2016. and and
all the vcs at sasker annual in february
26 i remember they're freaked out
they're freaked out um and i have a
panel of these new ceos i have the new c
i have this company called intercom this
company called digital oceans company
called talk desk and us we did a panel
together with mark sister and a few
others the vcs were panicked and the
ceos are like we think we're going to do
fine these companies ipo'd and our deck
of corns but
2016 it seemed it if
although the the numbers were smaller it
was brutal
and yet we bounced back right not
overnight but we bounced back fast and
went on this run
but it was bleak back then wasn't it
linkedin sold for 7x revenue even
marketo sold right i think that was the
window where marketo sold to
um to vista for what seemed like a lot
of money one point something billion but
i think phil
and reid sold because they were we were
all freaked out it seemed like maybe
like times were tough but they weren't
so are there parallels here are we over
freaking out maybe like we did in 2016
yeah
yeah i think all good points and and uh
happy to share some thoughts because i
was on the board of marketo at that time
yeah it was scary i remember the day
marketo tableau linkedin
they all dropped well yeah tableau
plummeted right and ended up being sold
to salesforce for almost 20 billion
right they all plummeted and it was
scary and i was in the front row of
disaster that year yeah and i think we
were all certainly concerned
listen you know i i have been
fortunately or unfortunately here for
many of the downturns 2000 2008 2016
and today
um you know they're they're all
different and i actually think it's
impossible to draw exact parallels to
every specific moment in the past
and you could find a smart investor
today who thinks it's the bottom and
another one
who thinks that we have a long way to go
down
2016 i think was different in the sense
that those companies
dropped because their guidance was weak
the business yes but that specific
moment in time
were underperforming relative to
expectations just for a moment and they
went down by fifty percent maybe the
markets aren't as big as we thought who
knows we were sas
and we sold marketo for 1.8 billion
phenomenally great outcome and then
vista sells it two years later for 4.5
billion yeah
and we felt like we left a lot of money
on the table it was actually kind of
kind of painful
despite being a great outcome so your
question is
is this 2016 where we're going to see a
bit of a v recovery
or is there more downside and i can tell
you uh you know both of us could come up
with both cases yeah you know here's the
bear case jason we we're down 50 to 80
right in in many of these names today
but as you know as well as i do we're
only now at median pre-covered trading
multiples so by no means are stocks
cheap today
and you know i just look at the
magnitudes of these companies you know
look at a marketa look at ahashi look at
a toast that are down massively
and they're all just sub 10 billion
dollar companies iconic companies
right no pun intended iconic companies
right even even still
they're early investors these are still
at today's level still the biggest wins
they've ever had in their career
yeah and way beyond probably the most
aggressive exit assumptions they had in
their investment memos
and so in other words it's really not
that painful yet
and you know a bear would say that we
need to experience real pain uh before
we reach the bottom and and the
multiples would suggest that we're not
cheap yet you know the the bull case i
think is what you would say which is
these markets are bigger than we thought
they're growing faster than we thought
so we shouldn't end up at the median
multiples pre-covered it should be
higher than that and therefore there's
upside to that i happen to be one of the
bulls
and i'm not calling the bottom yeah
that's not our job to pick the bottom
but my guess is that we do settle out at
multiples higher than today over the
next
24 months
yep and and we get back to
that being normal as opposed to normal
being the median from 2015 to 2020.
so let let's talk about that but before
we leave the before we leave the past
you were at the front row of saster in
2016. really the percentage drop was
very similar to today and it was
actually faster right and it was about
panic about growth rates today
everyone's crushed not everyone but
almost everyone's crushing their numbers
but it was a panic
i'd forgotten about that and i and i
wasn't taking investing as seriously
today because i was new to it
but the panic feels similar i feel it
and maybe it was i think it was bigger
in 2016. i think it was because we
didn't have the confidence level but
there is there too much panic in the
market um and
how does that panic compare to the past
we forget no one's writing on twitter
about 2016 but people the markets froze
in their own way for a little while
didn't they
they sure did yeah and i think we all
wish we could go back to that moment and
invest that's the best and best and
god how many times i said i wish i could
go back to q109 and just do more
um and so
quite frankly i'm not sensing a lot of
panic at least from the good
uh experienced investors that i know
the times were so good the last two
years that in some ways i think we're
all
just feeling fortunate that we had those
years and gearing up to
to invest in this environment so i'm not
feeling the panic i think if you go on
twitter you see a lot of comments
but i i'm not sensing panic
and and i don't think that it's that
it's really time for panic again
especially since valuations are actually
relatively fair right now
um and so
you know i'm not sure i i necessarily
see what you're seeing
uh at least not inside our four walls
well i think there's maybe and let's
let's i want to talk about the president
i do think there's panic
i think there's panic
in folks with short runways and high
valuations
there's inherently some math there right
and i think the
folks with lower quality
revenues have some panic right um and i
think um but that's a good insight that
there isn't panic at iconic um because
you're multi-stage right and
um anyone that's multi-stage is going to
have a few
a few iconic logos there that it
possibly are underwater based on today's
valuations right so if there's no panic
you know uh if i invested it at canva 40
billion this is an iconic company right
canva i mean no question right but it is
possible it could be worth less than the
public markets today right we don't we
don't know right um but you're not
seeing that but what is let's talk about
what's frozen like
are are there with multiple compressions
right and for folks listening where
that's that they don't know what that
means just everything's worth less those
toasts those hashicorps
these are companies that are no longer
decacorns that really should be tech
they should be decacorns
but in some cases they're not and it
doesn't leave a lot of room for you to
raise it a billion
if someone much more successful news
trading at three to four there's just
not a lot of room for it seemed like
everyone could be a unicorn in 2021 now
there's not a lot of room so what is
frozen what's just
tougher or where are the tough rounds
today and what's still going to get done
yeah
first of all i would say the big mistake
that the growth stage investors made
over the last couple of years pivoting
off of what you just said was not that
we thought everything could be a unicorn
it's that we thought everything could be
a deca corn yeah i think that this
environment is proving just how hard and
just how rare it is to be a sustainable
decacorn uh i'll just say that first
because you were mentioning that in
terms of frozen uh i would say
uh there is some truth to the
to the idea that the kind of series b
and beyond markets are are frozen right
now uh i wouldn't have said that in q1
um i think in general the market's pace
relative to q4 was down about 24 percent
in q1 but i think you're going to see a
very different dynamic in q2 because
just in the last two or three weeks
pipelines have have really frozen
and and i think you're going to see at
least at the growth stage um pace slow
dramatically and why is that you know
it's pretty obvious and it's the reason
by the way
that we aren't panicking and we worry a
little bit less about being involved
with great companies that are overvalued
it's because they have so much capital
right good companies and we feel
fortunate that we're in a lot of those
they raised
two times sometimes three times in the
last 12 to 18 months in my career i have
never seen so many private companies it
was crazy 100 200
400 million on the balance sheet like
literally years of runway
and so
why is the pace of growth slowing it's
because all those ceos of the very best
companies are saying i'm heads down i'm
growing i'm going to grow into my
valuation and they're not accessing the
capital markets anymore and so that's
really
slowed down a lot now
sub a billion valuation
things are happening still uh quite
aggressively both in terms of velocity
and also price and you'd ask why is that
yeah well one there's a lot of capital
but two
in my opinion
it's actually the growth stage marks
that inform the earlier stage on what's
the new benchmark and since there aren't
any transactions happening at the growth
stage the early stage doesn't really
have any new basis to think about what
the new valuations should be and what
they will be the next time they raise
capital
so so so let me make sure i understand
that there's a whole bunch of
interesting things you said first of all
before we get to that this is why i
don't think
i think there's too much drama on
twitter i don't think there's going to
be very many layoffs or issues and b2b
companies because they're very well
funded like some of them raised yeah
some of them mis got the timing off and
they were going to raise in may and
that's happened it happens right it
sucks but so many raised more than they
ever could have imagined and if you just
don't spend it all i mean i got i got an
invest report from a
company i invested in a 300 million
dollar evaluation saying he had 52 years
of runway
maybe he can't raise it a billion next
week but like it doesn't matter
existentially does it if you have that's
that's the point you're making i think
there's more stories there
than these cameo and other stories that
we see on twitter they're just not as
many of them
at least in b2b right so no
yeah
i think you're going to see very few
layoffs now i think you're going to see
probably slightly less hiring
slightly slower hiring than you might
have otherwise seen but i agree most of
again the good companies uh that are
well-funded market leaders
i don't think you're gonna see layoffs
they'll just chill from a fundraising
perspective right so the second point
you made i got a little bit confused on
but it could be me
that below a billion the growth market's
still active but it's also slowed down
i'm a little bit no no below a billion
or certainly below 500 million which to
you would feel really late stage but to
us
is
earlier stage yes
earlier stage deal velocity and
valuations are still happening and high
yeah
and where does it slow down pick a
number pick a valuation
over a billion okay but you're still
seeing at iconic and in general you're
still seeing rounds at 200 300 400 500
million for the good ones they'll happen
quickly absolutely and apparently i was
speaking with a friend at the seed stage
who said i've never been busier
and and so the earlier stage you get the
more vibrant the marketplace still is
got it um but and then there's a logical
inconsistency here let's if there's no
slowdown in seed um they still have to
raise a's
yeah um you remember
the series a's there is b gap yeah i
think it's everything but seed is what i
think i think there's a gap some sort of
gap everywhere because the the logic
falls apart
uh i understand what you're saying um
yeah so seed is certainly vibrant my
understanding we've been doing less of
it of late
is that there's still lots of
transactions happening at the series a
stage yeah
so i think it's a series b and beyond
gap that i think is going to trickle
down to series a pretty quickly
and are in when if the migrants market
still flowing under a billion 500
million
is and this is always interesting is our
value people like to talk about resets
and valuation resets but again the best
founders don't have to take money
right and many not sometimes they need
money they got to fill up the tank
what's really happening like i i don't
think startup markets really can fall as
far as the public markets in many cases
because founders just won't raise right
so how does that how does that or maybe
i'm wrong how does that how does that
back and forth or evan flow play out in
practice today i think it takes time i
think it's going to take two three four
quarters yeah those companies that
raised in early
or mid 2021 to need to come back and
there will come a time where they need
capital and the pendulum will swing
from you know purely power on the part
of founders and companies
more towards the middle where there's a
balance of power between entrepreneurs
and investors and i think that
valuations will will actually come down
now
the truth is there's a lot of capital
out there for a long time and as we all
know it only takes one investor
to believe
to drive evaluation up so it may take
time
but my prediction is over time
the private markets trickle down into
the growth markets that then trickles
down into the earlier stages
and and you start to see
moderating valuations across the
spectrum
our deals going to take longer too are
are people doing more diligence and it
seemed like we did for a little while
there were deals seem to happen in a
couple of days no matter what the price
was
yeah so so you asked you know what else
are we seeing yeah you know this is part
of what we're seeing we're seeing
companies now out there testing the
waters when was the last time you heard
about testing the waters right it used
to be the message was last year we've
got so much inbound interest that we're
raising now and it meant term sheets in
two days yeah and now i'm getting calls
and on calls with great entrepreneurs
that are saying first meetings this week
we're going to do second meetings next
week in the following week and then
we're going to think about term sheets
the week after that when was the last
time you heard about a real process
we're hearing that over and over which
yes will give us more time for diligence
and quite frankly i think relationship
building which is good for entrepreneurs
too
i felt bad during those years that
entrepreneurs were picking their
investors after two days
yeah so in some ways i think that's a
good thing
we're not seeing down rounds yet one of
the things that we're seeing right now
which i think is sort of funny is a lot
of second attempts at secondaries where
early investors and employees are
looking to see if they can sell at the
2021 valuations
and sometimes by the way we're doing
that in the very best companies and
other times it's just clearly that
doesn't make sense sometimes you're
buyers as someone with with a big
pocketbook at iconic your buyers now
oh sure yeah you mean at last year's
valuation if the company grew enough
um
yeah yeah everyone everyone everyone
became a holder last year
that's right
right everyone beca i mean i remember
you know the old
well i'm still or it'll take me too long
to learn but you know the old the old
usb fred wilson deal was any unicorn we
celibate at right that's he wrote this
iconic post we sell we don't sell it all
but we'll sell 10 or 20 as early-stage
investors at a unicorn and i remember
last year when algolia raised a 2
billion it was my second investment i'm
like this is so cheap i would never sell
this
and the company has almost doubled since
then and now i think it's market
yeah no it's true you know for the last
year or two
there was a saying adventure that
anything you sold you regret it
because everything just went up and up
and up everything yeah even as a
pre-seed investor you were a fool to
sell early right and i think the moment
you feel that way
that you regret every sale and believe
that you should just hold everything
forever is maybe a good signal uh that
we're nearing the top
let me step back for a minute on a niche
question and then and then let's talk
about some larger stuff but when your
growth at iconic
what is the what's the goal for a
bell-shaped distribution like
it's hard to get a 1000x outcome right
um is 10x really good is 3x the average
like just help founders think when
they're going into pitch what is doug
thinking about what's that what's that
bell-shaped distribution of growth what
are they looking to achieve yeah yeah i
mean obviously for us being a
multi-stage firm
uh it really does depend right we're
investing in companies at two or three
million are and we're investing in
companies at 50 to 100 million are so it
does depend on the stage i'd say for
traditional growth call it you know 20
million are beyond you know we're
underwriting and we have we have very
significant investment memos where we go
through pretty in-depth underwriting
models um you know we've always
underwritten
to an exit multiple dramatically at a
discount to today's multiples
and at so what does that mean walk us
through with that we're investing today
at a 30 times multiple of revenue and
we're assuming in five years from now
when we exit that we're going to exit at
a 10 times multiple okay so we always
factored this compression into our
models
even before this happened
and we would model
3x 5x depending on the stage
but always with a goal even at growth
that we could achieve 10x or more and
you know one of the amazing things about
growth is that that we've enjoyed at
least in the last few years is very
little risk relative to early stage yeah
but if we if we select right and partner
with the best companies
seeing returns of 10 20 30 times
got it yeah so so a message to founders
because i i don't
i'm shocked how few founders do this
when you start to raise these rounds in
the nine figures even today evaluation
wherever it is whatever in the nines
come prepared with the 10x outcome right
what does that mean and just think
through what that means just make sure
you've thought through it from your oh
you may think great 500 is twice my last
round right but okay that's six billion
with dilution right to achieve 10x
you've gotta have a six and then go look
at the cloud index and see who's trading
between six and seven billion what their
ar and growth rate is and come up with
an honest model an honest model about
how at 21 million in are
you will grow as fast as git lab right
which is probably what you're asking
right you're probably saying i'm going
to be as good as git lab or better and
take i don't i see almost no founders
take that seriously until like the
mezzanine stage but i think they should
today if they want to if they want this
to work right yeah so we don't
underwrite to 10x but we underwrite to a
three to five x minimum but we always
want to understand and believe in that
how could it be 10x right and that's
that's a guide for founders to think
about right you're underwriting the
three to five x but you need a case for
the 10x to pull the trigger on the deal
right and back to a comment that you
made earlier in the conversation
what's happened to the very best public
companies and make no mistake these are
the best companies yeah that are
operated the best the highest growth
rates
if they're trading it five to five
billion
yeah that makes it awfully hard for you
to raise it two billion if you're
you know a quarter their size
because the upside feels capped today
and how you when you meet a company
where you love everything about it today
you love the founders you love the
market you love the disruption but the
comps sitting at three to four billion
today right
do you do you grit your teeth and do the
deal anyway or how do you how do you get
past that right um
how do you deal with that situation
it's a great question you know
historically and and i think going
forward especially here at iconic we do
what it takes to get involved with those
companies
um and so
we don't set the price the market
normally does yeah and if we love it as
much as you just described
we'll do what it takes
to to get into that company and i
suspect we'll have a belief if it's that
good and we're doing this right now in a
couple of situations that it can be
worth more than that three and a half
billion dollar company yeah it's just
tough when there's some of them are like
hashicorp
or kit lab because they're such good
companies
that's fair they're just so good
that's that's the that i think is the
kicker
the kicker at the moment um one let's go
one detail then let's
maybe we can we can end on a couple
higher level stuff but an adjacent
question um let's talk about private
equity markets the the the vistas the
the all the the tomo bravo's who i think
were just gifts to founders okay they
did great deals and in my investments
you know sales off sold on december 31st
to vista um pipedrive had a great
outcome there too i mean really really
great and and more than that everyone
got offers everyone i knew every founder
that hit 15 20 million are even if
they're growing like 40 or 50 percent
like i'm not talking about triple triple
quadruple double double double i'm
talking about they would get it they
would get a 10x error offer sometimes
right i'm at 25 million i'm growing 40
percent doug's not going to fund me but
holy cow pe comes in it'll give me 250
to blend them together with their
company is this still going to happen is
this still a decent exit for founders is
this turned off like what's going on
with with the pe side of things yeah
yeah i think they're going to be
incredibly active um incredibly active
we
you know we know these these firms we've
talked to a lot of bankers that are
talking to these firms all the time as
recently as a couple of days ago yeah
they are they have massive funds as you
know many of them just raised uh and
they're incredibly active as we speak
uh both in the public and private
markets yeah um you saw sale point was
acquired by toma bravo just in april 13
times revenue uh which is a very healthy
multiple especially in today's market
and we're hearing about some very large
deals
that are being contemplated again both
public and private and so i think you
look to these firms in some ways as
bellwethers just like this marketo
yeah in 2006 we thought that we thought
that was crazy but there it was
smart as a wolf or whatever it was
called
and and i think when you start to see
these firms move in yeah and i think
they will i think that's a good
indicator
that at least they're seeing a good
entry point and and i think i would view
that as a signal to watch very carefully
got it so you don't think so derivative
of that from a founder's perspective you
don't think they're going to get so
cheap in the current market that it will
be an unappealing option to founders you
don't think that's gonna because
the nice thing like there's downsides to
selling to pe we could chat about it
right it's a weird world um sometimes
it's not it has pros and cons comparing
to sometimes you can keep half your
stock and ipo but
but um but they they did pay fair prices
for the last five or six years they were
good prices right and they were cash
they're like a used car their cash on
the hood of the car like you want one
billion dollars
and you want it in a week and you want
no escrow and you want no penalties and
you want to go you want to go work on
your vineyard
no one would give a deal like that right
um
and and the valuations got pretty good
right and yet the irrs were amazing for
some of these funds right
i think they've done incredibly well and
i don't think that they are monolithic
they're different firms that have
different strategies and their their
strategies have evolved you know a
company acquired by vista 10 years ago
has had a very different experience than
one
acquired recently and you and i both
know founders that are in vista right
now that are loving it yeah that have
the upside where they feel like it's
being operated well
and and so i do think it's a viable
outcome
and and where founders you know can do
well now are there multiples that
they're willing to pace likely to go
down in the last you know eight twelve
weeks certainly uh yeah but i but i
don't think it's going to be you know
valuations from 10 years ago i think
they can still be quite attractive i
just think if p goes in and they cut the
price in half
good founders are just going to say no
for sure they're just going to say no so
so so the question is is that is that
market going to be frozen but you're
saying no it's that they're smart they
see the future they can model it out and
and they can achieve they can double or
triple their money in three to four
years like clockwork that's the model
right it's just double or triple
everybody like clockwork yeah i always
um
you know obviously marketo was a public
company but you'd love to have been able
to roll over on that deal and continue
participating along it's interesting
that they don't let you isn't it
you can't do it if it's a public company
but as a private company uh certainly
you can roll over and i think sometimes
a lot of us would choose to roll over
with vista and participate in that
upside
okay two more um just two more industry
questions and then we can wrap up unless
you want to add something um
and the first one i think you actually
said some interesting things around it
already
this idea that there's so much dry
powder that there's so many funds right
you can see there's so many
multi-billion dollar funds that have
been raised since january right and all
the ones raised last year
are is it does that is is that benefits
founders is all that money got still got
to be deployed in 24 months
um
is this oh is this a good overhang for
founders or what's going to happen with
all this money we raised
uh
yeah there there's a lot of capital
that's been raised in the last 12 24
months by the way we've been saying that
for 20 years
yeah yeah i know yeah yeah there's
always too much capital uh chasing too
few deals
but the funds got real the funds got
real big the last few years though
didn't the funds have gotten bigger got
real big that's the thing right but the
market's a lot bigger so i think there's
always too much capital but there's a
lot of capital now and absolutely uh
that's great for founders i think this
is still going to be an incredible time
uh to to fundraise and build companies
the difference is going to be
in the last two or three fund cycles we
were investing each of those funds in
one year i think you're going to see
fund cycles normalized back to a two or
three year fund cycle yeah but but
ultimately our job is to deploy capital
and and as a collective we will uh and
so i think founders should
uh feel like there's a lot of capital
for them if they tell a good story and
build good products
they're going to be able to do really
well
in accessing capital yeah i asked david
sacks this question i think yesterday on
twitter and he said at craft it's the
same two-year cycle for the current plan
for deployment for the fund for iconic
are you saying maybe it's gone from a
crazy one to a two right which would
still be fine and if so would that feel
slower to founders would it feel slow
because one was crazy one was crazy
right
yeah my guess is my guess is that it
does extend out to a longer fund cycle i
don't know whether it'll be two years or
one and a half or three
but it will lengthen but we're also
raising uh subsequently larger funds so
i think to the entrepreneur to the
founder they actually won't see any
difference in terms of our behavior or
how aggressively we're going to market
in fact we're going to market as
aggressively as ever before we've had
more meetings in q1 and so far in april
as we did in q4 so that's interesting
there's no slow down whatsoever
yeah okay last super inside baseball one
just folks are curious lps the limited
partners that give vc's money i feel
like if nothing else there's some
indigestion and hangover here if for no
other reason and you have a much larger
base and much much broader lens than i
do
but folks came back to market so fast
they raised so many funds um
and in some cases lps rose
rode their markups last year to insane
numbers right a whole bunch of
universities had irrs north of 90 on
their venture portfolios last year and i
think they thought they were too
brilliant i think lps who are always
skeptical of paper markups bought into
it and and now they're down right it's
it's much it's not as fun to be down as
it is it's much worse to be down than up
isn't it so where what are you hearing
and learning from lps and and how will
that impact vcs like at different stages
yeah it's like the uh average robin hood
trader it's it's a lot less fun to
gamble when you're losing money right
yeah
you know it's true i was actually
thinking about that article i think it
came out in october of last year
talking about mit
and duke up 56
and you know all these other endowments
were up amazingly mainly through private
equity and venture capital those marks
are going to be tough in the next couple
of quarters uh so yes i think like all
of us lps are reassessing the
environment trying to figure out what to
do
and my guess is that they'll do
um what what many others are doing which
is retrench a bit and my guess is they
they allocate less capital to venture uh
as they normally do they do that by
focusing less on new names
and focusing more on the re-ups of their
best managers yeah and so i think that
will happen
but but listen
you know i think all of us in all of
these asset classes early stage late
stage public lps
the reality is this
we always invest the most
when we should be investing the least
and we invest the least
we should invest the most yeah and i
think smart lps like smart investors
know that and probably the best fun
vintages are going to be 2022 2023
as opposed to 2021.
so the irony is despite yes those
amazing irrs going down
probably the best time to invest is 2022
2023 as opposed to
to last year and i think the smartest
lps know that
for sure well doug i want to wrap up
some things i learned but anything we
you wanted to get out that we didn't get
out on this great discussion
no just you know something that's on my
mind is around
you know obviously i've been a venture
for 20 plus years 22 23 years you
started at 16 right
i wish i wish that were the case but um
you know what i what i worry about right
now
is young people in the venture business
who have been learning bad lessons for
the last two years
uh i know a lot everyone has a 10x 18
million dollar fund everyone has a 10x
18 million right felt like it was too
easy yeah and it felt that way right
quick markups
uh on every deal i was talking to a seed
investor who said out of his 60
companies in the last seven years he's
only had one bankruptcy
right and so a lot of young people got
used to this business being really easy
and the reality and you know this better
than i do is that it's really hard
because you've been a builder and it's
incredibly hard to work with founders
that are building companies to pick the
right ones and then to help them and i
saw countless careers that were ended by
98 99 by learning the wrong lessons yeah
and i think we have an entire generation
of investors and some founders
that need to learn new lessons about how
hard it is to actually play this you
know startup ecosystem and and you know
venture game
and so
you know it's something we think about a
lot and trying to kind of motivate young
people to
to dig in and really learn those tough
lessons because it's not as fun when
you're not getting markups every six
months
but that's the reality
yeah i think so many folks that were new
to venture the last three years only
learned the momentum playbook and it
worked on paper like that's right um but
momentum and really finding and picking
are like not related that's right right
get convincing doug to let me throw in a
million dollars into his hottest deal
that that was a great and still is a
good strategy like try to get but that
that could even work for a small fund
like if it's a decacorn even a small
percentage ownership of a 20 billion
dollar outcome is huge right but that
playbook for the moment is out the
window right and now you've got to go
hunt find get real ownership and have
some losers rather than just have a
little small stake of momentum plays and
no criticism but that was a playbook
that i never caught my breath on i never
i was never i never grew up in the
momentum playbook but i watched so many
folks executed seemingly to perfection
right um just hop into a hot deal for a
small stake because there's always any
great manager will allocate 10 or 20 of
a deal to allies right that will help
the portfolio and that became
productized the last two years right
well listen i i learned the venture
business from 2000 to 2004. which i
promise you
is was way worse than anything that
we're about to experience yeah way worse
right from 2000 to 2004 we couldn't sell
software to anyone and yeah and it was
it was really a tough time but i'll add
one more thing about the reality of the
business is picking well
and and not focusing on momentum
but but the other key aspect which is
truly partnering with companies
and helping them and being there when
things are tough
and the thing that i think we've gotten
away from a little bit the last few
years with this momentum investing
is the idea that you could just be a
picker
and when i hear about some of these
crossover investors moving earlier it
really scares me i think some of them
have done an amazing job innovating at
growth
and i respect them for that but i think
the dangers to the ecosystem of those
same investors going earlier that don't
have the capacity
or the focus or the resources to really
help early stage companies i think is
damaging to the ecosystem
yeah going early
it it i don't think do you risk things
and i don't help i don't think it helps
founders i don't think growth you're
trying to growth investors trying to
become like
pickers it's it's a different skill set
right it's just it's a it's fault it's a
false flight to safety that probably
isn't real right absolutely yeah it's
not good for founders well doug this was
great let me just thank you so much for
joining us i i learned a lot from this
and i think but some big take some
really big takeaways versus twitter
one is that a reminder that iconic's
feeling pretty good despite the market
because so many of their founders are so
well funded
so many founders have years and years of
capital me maybe spend a little less
maybe extend your runway another six to
12 months that's my general advice to
folks if you raised a lot just make it
last a little longer and you can tune
everything out and there's some zen
there at iconic and i i find that
heartening to hear and the second one
and and i want to i want to get more
folks opinions but iconics a great one
is that
yes there is there are crunches but the
market is not frozen below a billion
right um marking up your deca corn is
going to be tough today but
iconic is as active now as q4 in looking
at deals and is on a decent deployment
pace so
if you've got if you're at 10 20 30 40
million you're not frozen out of the
market right if you've got top top
decile metrics go do the meetings and
you're going to get funded right as a
takeaway
right because i don't think everyone
believes that or sees it um but we're
hearing it how much does iconic manage
and how many investments over its
history do you have a rough sense a lot
uh we've got well over well we've got
over 100 portfolio companies yeah but
many of those are public now
uh probably 20 of those are are public
yeah so this is this is real data this
this is from a leader in growth
investing
that at least below a billion for the
best companies the taps are open so
let's uh raise a little more stretch
your capital out longer and if you've
got the metrics go raise that round now
below a billion right
absolutely it's still a great time to
build thanks this was this was super
helpful
really enjoyed it take care